---
type: 'post'
title: 'Resolutions'
date: 2018-12-31
---

I haven't historically liked the idea of resolutions, but I'm going to give
them a shot this year. In no particular order, here are a few of my resolutions
for the upcoming year.

## Exercise moderation

I tend to be an all-or-nothing kind of person, which is fine in some aspects of
life but less ideal in others. Particularly in regard to my diet, in which I
either successfully exercise restraint and don't treat myself at all, or I go
completely overboard and eat a dozen donuts at once. I'd like to find some kind
of happy middle in between the two that's more sustainable and doesn't make me
depressed when the repercussions of my actions hit me.

## Prioritize hobbies

I've been busy with schoolwork, and just tired and unmotivated in general, for
most of the time since I started my master's program two semesters ago, and as
a result I've nearly entirely neglected all of my former hobbies, as well as
new hobbies I'd like to start. This has also contributed to my poor eating
habits, as I've been refusing to let myself do anything fun besides eat, as
spending time doing anything but work or schoolwork has given me a feeling of
guilt. I want to stop that and find more time to do the things I used to enjoy,
like watching anime, playing video games, and working on personal projects. I
would also really like for 2019 to finally be the year where I bust out the
keyboard and learn-to-play-piano book I've got and finally learn how to make
some music.

## Be more intentional

In certain aspects of my life I tend to just let things happen to me instead of
putting time and focus in and maximizing my enjoyment. For instance, I want to
pay more attention to music, follow artists I like, create playlists, and
search for new music. For a while now I've just been relying on Spotify's
auto-generated playlists of mostly background music, I would really like to put
some effort in and really love what I'm listening to again. This also applies
to projects at work and at school, where I would like to learn to say no to
things that don't really matter and focus more fully on things that do. And
other larger life decisions, like my apartment, thesis focus, and even future
long-term career plans.

## Read more

I did a fair amount of reading for school the last two semesters, but nearly
ceased reading entirely for both enjoyment and for personal growth. And when I
did find time to read I just wasted it reading unimportant web articles. Much
better to put that time into reading some of the many books that are piled up
on my to-read shelves.

## Write more

I've been wanting to dust off this blog for a long time now, which is part of
the reason why I'm writing this post now. I did maintain a journal for a few
weeks toward the end of this year, which I was happy about, but I stopped when
I got particularly busy and stressed toward the end of the semester. I'm not
sure if I'll restart with that, at least not every day, but I hope to post more
here (and give the site in general some of the love it could really use) this
year.

---

That's all I've got for right now. I may touch this up a bit in the morning but
I'm tired now. Thanks for reading, hopefully there's more here to read soon.
